So we published an output here.
To use it in another job, in the deploy job, to be precise,
we simply have to go into this job
and then, for example, add a new step,
where I say output, file name.
The name of course is up to you.
And then here I wanna run a command
that uses the output by the build job.
And here I simply wanna output
that file name to keep things simple.
So I'll use the echo command,
but then here between my quotes
I again use this dynamic expression syntax
to evaluate some expression.
And now I wanna get data from that build job.
And we can get that data by using the needs context object.
Again, we have a lot of objects here
and we can get data about other jobs
with help of the jobs context object.
But for outputs, a better object to use
is the needs object down there.
Because that needs object contains the outputs of all jobs
that are defined as a dependency of the current job.
So here, when I use the needs object
I can then dive into my job on which this job depends.
In this case that's the build job
because that's specified as my only need here.
So I can access needs dot build here.
Since I'm using build here as an identifier.
And then for this job, we can dive into outputs.
That's again, a field defined by GitHub Actions,
which exists on all the jobs
that are specified as needs.
And now we can use the output identifier specified here,
which is script file.
So that's the identifier I define as an output
here in my build job,
hence I can access it down there.
And now this line should output the file name
published by that other job.
And of course, that was a lot of work here
because I also tried to explain it in detail.
But this can be a very useful feature
for passing simple data between different jobs
and in conjunction with artifacts.
This therefore allows you to pass any kind of data
between jobs.
And as mentioned before already,
this will become especially important once we dive
into building custom actions.
Nonetheless, here with all that finished,
I will now stage these changes
and create a new commit, added outputs and then push this.
And now when this Workflow runs again
we should see that in the deploy step,
in the deploy job, we successfully output the file name
that is stored or provided as an output by the build job.
So let's wait for this Workflow to finish here.
So here, the Workflow finished.
And now if I click on deploy
and we take a look at the output file name step,
we see that I did successfully output
that file name that was published as an output
in the build step.
Here in published JS file name,
I did publish that file name.
We don't see the file name here
because it's derived dynamically
but it's data output that was generated here
and that was then stored as an output here.
When the job completed it's that output
that is successfully accessed
in the output file name step of the deploy job.